# BBCFS
        In modern file systems, write ahead logging i.e. journaling offers high level of metadata consistency and reduced file system recovery times, but at the cost of performance penalty.In the context of ext3 file system, writeback mode is the fastest mode of journaling. However, in the middle of write operation of a file if an event of system crash or power failure happens, writeback mode does not guarantee the consistency of data in the file with its metadata. Hence, writeback mode is not preferred over other journaling modes even though it has high throughput.         I am presenting a novel technique to enhance data consistency offered by the writeback mode of journaling through this project. The key idea is to incorporate a unique identity of a file inside each data block related to it. To achieve this, inode number of the file along with data is incorporated in each data block of a file. This inode number inside the data block acts as a back-pointer i.e. as a logical link which points back to the inode of the file. While reading the file, consistency of the data inside each data block is confirmed by verifying the back-pointer inside it. As a result, accidental usage of inconsistent or invalid data is prevented which could be hazardous in some of the critical applications in the banking and financial sectors. Performance evaluation of this project shows that the proposed mechanism requires a small amount of additional storage memory while providing a better consistency with high throughput of writeback mode as compared to traditional writeback mode.
